(upbeat whistling)
Alright so, next up we are talking about
the flex property. Not display flex,
but this is a property
that actually goes on the individual flex item.
Quick review.
We've got these containers here,
which that's our flex container,
and then each one of these things inside of here,
those are flex items.
I switched up the content inside of them a little bit,
just to show you the stuff works
with different amounts of content.
It's kind of nice to see some words
that are longer than others.
I Just put some emojis in there
so we can have fun.
We need to go ahead and select each one.
The property that we want
is the flex property.
Now I'm gonna to show you how to use flex
with just one single value first,
then we're going to break it down
into flex-grow, flex-shrink
and something called flex-basis.
What does flex do?
It essentially answers the question
what do I do with this extra space
or what do I do when I don't actually
have enough space.
Cuz the whole point of flex box is that
it's not gonna break you layout if
you have too much space
or not enough space.
It will sort of just do
it'll kind of intelligently
figure out where everything needs to go.
So what I want to do right now is like
lets take a look here what have I done
I just hit display flex
and I've got our items
and the width of your flex items by default
is what's called auto.
Its just the width of the content inside of them.
Now if I go ahead and say flex 1 on there and refresh
you'll see that each of the flex items
regardless of how much content they have
they are all taking up the exact amount of space.
So that answers what flex is Flex is at what proportion
should I scale myself up or down
when we have extra space or not enough space.
Now because I gave all of them
a flex property of 1
remember that we're talking about
when we don't have any flex on right here
we're talking about the additional space
left on over or when we get smaller
how they scaled down together.
talk about that in a second. So, when I say flex 1
we're saying that each of you should divvy up
the remaining space proportionately.
And that's why they are all the same size.
However, now if I go ahead and say box 2
and give it a flex property of 2,
watch what happens to this one right here.
You see that it is twice the size
of all the other ones.
And why is that?
Well, we said when there is extra space
or when there is not enough space,
we'll look at that in a second.
Box 2 should have double the amount
of all the other ones as flex 2 is just
over-riding the flex 1 of this previously set.
So that's great.
When I resize, watch what happens.
At a certain point, if I take all this off real quick
At a certain point, right about here,
we're gonna move from
too much space, too much extra
to not enough and that's
the other thing that flex box does.
Yeah, its great when you have extra space
but what happens when there is
not enough space there?
So let me put that back on here.
And here, Let me show you
what it looks like when it's just flex 1.
There're all evenly divvied up
but when I give box 2 a flex value of 2
it says all right, I'm extra hungry,
I'm extra hungry pizza div here
and I want to eat up twice as much
of the extra room
as the rest of you.
Now flex properties can be decimal points,
if I were then to move dot box 5 into flex 3
you'll see that now box 5 takes up 3 times
the amount of room as something that is
still flex 1. It's all in proportion
it's not pixels, it's not percentage
or anything like that. We'll be looking at that
in just a second. However, it's all about
how much of the extra space on that line
we'll at a multi-line example as well
in just a second, How much of the extra space
or when there's not enough space
how do we divvy that up amongst
all of my siblings that we have here.